.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii ffn.1
.\"
.TH FFN 1 "2018/01/03" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
ffn \- Fix File Names
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ffn [options]
.I file[s]
.B ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
Fixes file names by removing spaces and non-alphanumber characters.

By default, all characters are converted to lowercase. This includes converting
any file extention to lowercase.

By default, all dots/periods are removed. If the file has an extension
the dot between the basename and the file extension is maintained.
Any leading dot on hidden files is not removed.

Only regular files and directories will be renamed, no symlinks will be renamed.

Rename Rules
  + convert all non-whitelist characters to underscores
      whitelist = digits (0-9), letters (a-zA-Z), underscore, dash, period/dots
  + optionally convert uppercase to lowercase (this includes the file extension)
  + convert spaces to underscores
  + optionally change dots to underscores, except leading one
  + remove multiple underscores
  + remove leading dashes

If know file list is provided, names will be read from stdin. 

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-d,  --nodots"
leave dots in the file name
.IP "-D,  --dirs"
rename directories
.IP "-l   --nolower"
do not convert letters to lowercase
.IP  "     --dryrun"
dryrun (test run) do not rename files, only display name changes
.IP   "     --verbose"
enable verbose output
.IP "     --version"
display the program version number
.IP "     --help"
prints a short version of help

.SH EXAMPLES 
The following examples may help:

 ffn *
         rename all files in the current directory

 ffn --dryrun -D -- *
         test run for all files and directories in the current directory

 find . -print | ffn --dryrun 
         recursivey rename all files in current directory

 find . -print0  | xargs -0 ffn
        recursivey rename file (including files with newline in the name)

.SH BUGS
Fails to rename/fix capitalization of files on Samba shares

.SH AUTHOR
John Lockett <lockett@nbnet.nb.ca>


